# NBA_MVP_analysis
Software: Python (latest)

	I want to find out the likelihood that a player in the NBA will win the Most Valuable Player award and the statistical averages that follow this prestigious award. I think it would also be interesting to find the probability that the Rookie of The Year (ROY) one day becomes a regular-season MVP. Now it is extremely difficult to statistically say with certainty that a player will or will not become the next MVP. However, to combat my originally ambitious goal I decided to leave it up to the user. For example, at the end of my code for my def getStatsInput I want the user to pick a player of their liking and see how they fare statistically to past MVP candidates. This includes averages of all major statistical categories (points, rebounds. Assists, steals, blocks, field goal percentage, three-point percentage, and free-throw percentage). I find this extremely interesting because there is a lot to examine with how a randomly selected NBA player performs (statistically) against the league’s MVP legends. I also find it interesting that their stats can be nearly duplicated and still players are voted for the award. Again, there are many factors that go into an MVP decision, however, I find it interesting that a player like James Harden can be among the top in the NBA statistically and has never won an MVP trophy. 
	Furthermore, I thought it was interesting to explore the correlation between a player winning the ROY award and then following it up with an MVP trophy in the future. Logically, you would think that ROY has a higher statistical chance at becoming MVP one day than the rest of the league, which they do at 2.462% 100*(16/65), but it is still a low percentage. Roughly 2.5% of players who win ROY are likely to win an MVP in their future. This blows away the rest of the league at .021+-.006728. This is a 99% confidence interval that a randomly selected player from a population of all individual NBA players is to be an MVP candidate. The interval was calculated by figuring out the number of player IDs that were in my balldontlie.api which includes players from 1979-current. The total was 3092 and the number of NBA MVPs was 65. AS you can guess the odds are not in an NBA player’s favor, especially because many NBA players won multiple MVPs. Ultimately, we can be 99% confident that players who win an MVP trophy fall within hollow statistical ground .143%< MVP > .278%. 
	Furthermore, in my ipynb I worked through multiple CSV files from past MVPs to past ROY winners. From this data frame (pd.csv_reader) I was able to gather other statistically relevant data about player stats averages. One surprising stat, in particular, was that the average points per game for an MVP winner was 26 points. While this seems like a lot, I would imagine that many players in the NBA average 26 points. Ultimately, it doesn’t seem to be as much of an outlier as I once thought. Furthermore, I thought it was interesting that players who won both ROY and an MVP were roughly 43% likely to win 2 or more MVP trophies. 
	Overall, I wanted to find the statistical importance that represented a legendary player vs. an adequate player. The million-dollar question of finding the next generational talent is hard to represent. Hopefully, I represented how elite many of these players are and then the uber-eliteness of MVP winners. It is already significantly unlikely to become an NBA player and for those who make it, it is just as unlikely that they reach a superstar tier. 
Lastly, if I were to continue this project I would find the elite fantasy basketball players of next year. That way I can better predict statistically superior players and win my league, which also means I would no longer be punished for finishing last in my fantasy league. 


